Dynamics-Aware Intelligent Orchestration for
Hybrid Quantum–Classical Brain Simulation
Author Name
Department of Department
University / Institution, City, Country
Email: author@institution.edu
Abstract—Biophysically realistic brain simulation at the micro-
circuit scale imposes severe computational demands on classical
high-performance computing (HPC) infrastructures. The stiffness
inherent in Hodgkin–Huxley-type ordinary differential equations
(ODEs), combined with the stochastic variability of synaptic
events, routinely forces adaptive solvers to reduce time steps by
several orders of magnitude, rendering large-scale simulations
computationally prohibitive. Existing hybrid quantum–classical
(HQC) workflows address portions of this problem in isolation,
yet no standardized orchestration layer currently selects execu-
tion backends using the mathematical dynamics of the simulation
itself as routing criteria.
This paper presents a dynamics-aware intelligent orchestrator
that formalizes the neural workload as a directed task graph
G= (V,E)and introduces two quantitative scheduling metrics: a
stiffness indexρderived from the Jacobian eigenvalue spectrum,
and a stochasticity factorW(t)based on normalized variance. A
multi-objective mapping functionM:V →Hassigns subtasks
to CPU, GPU, or simulated QPU backends via a Slowdown-
Driven (SD-Policy) scheduler. Reduced Basis Neural Operators
(ReBaNO) and Eigenvector Continuation (EC) serve as reduced-
order kernels for stiff and high-dimensional subtasks respectively.
Experiments on an eight-neuron Hodgkin–Huxley microcir-
cuit, with QPU subtasks executed on the Qiskit Aer stat-
evector simulator, demonstrate a latency reduction of approx-
imately 26%, RMSE improvement of approximately 32%, and
a 17 percentage-point reduction in QPU idle time relative to a
static round-robin baseline. Seven analytical figures – including
a five-layer architecture diagram, annotated task graph, resource
utilization timeline, RMSE trace, sensitivity sweep, ReBaNO
convergence curve, and backend distribution chart – provide
transparent causal attribution for all reported improvements.
Limitations with respect to NISQ constraints and scalability are
discussed explicitly.
I. INTRODUCTION
The aspiration to simulate realistic neural circuits at the mi-
crocircuit scale has been a central objective of computational
neuroscience for several decades. The Hodgkin–Huxley (HH)
formalism [1], introduced in 1952 and subsequently extended
to multi-compartmental morphological models, remains the
dominant framework for capturing the ionic mechanisms un-
derlying action potential generation. It describes the membrane
voltageVand three gating variablesm,h, andnthrough
a tightly coupled system of nonlinear ODEs. The challenge
that most constrains the simulation of such networks at the
HPC level isstiffness: the sodium channel activation variable
mevolves on timescales of roughly 0.1 ms, while potas-
sium channel recovery proceeds over tens of milliseconds.Classical solvers such as the implicit Euler or Runge–Kutta–
Fehlberg methods respond to stiffness by drastically reducing
their internal time step, incurring computational overhead that
grows superlinearly with circuit size [2]. When thousands
of such compartmental models are coupled through stochas-
tic conductance-based synapses, classical HPC platforms ap-
proach their practical limits [3].
The emergence of the Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum
(NISQ) era has motivated investigation into hybrid quantum–
classical (HQC) architectures as potential accelerators for
high-dimensional scientific computing [4]. Variational Quan-
tum Algorithms (VQAs) established the first widely adopted
HQC pattern, in which a classical optimizer iteratively adjusts
the parameters of a shallow quantum circuit to minimize an
energy or loss function. More recently, the concept ofquantum
candidateshas been formalized to denote computational sub-
tasks that are intractable for classical systems but amenable
to quantum kernel offloading [5]. Despite this progress, no
published orchestration framework has operationalized the
quantum-candidate concept in real time using themathemat-
ical dynamicsof the running simulation – specifically, its
stiffness and stochasticity – as scheduling inputs. Existing
middleware layers treat quantum and classical tasks as generic
computational blocks, discarding the rich spectral information
that determines the actual cost of integrating neural ODEs [2].
This paper addresses that gap directly. The central hy-
pothesis is that routing decisions informed by the Jacobian
eigenvalue ratioρand the normalized state varianceW(t)
can yield measurably better resource utilization and numerical
fidelity than static or load-balanced assignment policies. The
contributions of this work are as follows: (i) a formal directed
task graphG= (V,E)for neural simulation workloads
with annotated dynamics metadata per node; (ii) a stiffness
indexρand stochasticity factorW(t)as quantitative, online-
computable routing criteria; (iii) a dynamics-aware mapping
functionM:V →Himplemented via the SD-Policy
malleable scheduler [6]; (iv) integration of Reduced Basis
Neural Operators (ReBaNO) [7] and Eigenvector Continuation
(EC) [8] as reduced-order kernels for QPU-routed subtasks;
and (v) an experimental prototype on an eight-neuron HH
microcircuit with Qiskit Aer-simulated QPU backends [9],
supported by seven analytical figures that provide transparent
causal attribution for all reported results.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Sec-
tion II reviews related work and positions the contributions.
Section III describes the system architecture and task graph
formalism. Section IV develops the mathematical model in-
cluding the stiffness and stochasticity metrics, the optimization
objective, and the fidelity criteria. Section V presents the
four orchestration algorithms with pseudocode. Section VI
describes the experimental setup and evaluation protocol.
Section VII presents and causally interprets the results across
all seven analytical figures and four tables. Section VIII
discusses the mechanisms behind the improvements, failure
modes, NISQ constraints, and scalability. Section IX concludes
with a summary of contributions and directions for future
work.
II. BACKGROUND ANDRELATEDWORK
A. Hybrid Quantum–Classical Workflows
The first generation of HQC scientific workflows was
largely confined to VQAs, in which a parameterized quantum
circuit (ansatz) is optimized by a classical gradient-based or
gradient-free method. The Variational Quantum Eigensolver
(VQE) and Quantum Approximate Optimization Algorithm
(QAOA) are canonical examples [10]. While effective for
small-scale problems, VQAs suffer from trainability chal-
lenges (barren plateaus) and are not directly applicable to
the time-integration workloads that dominate brain simulation.
More general HQC orchestration layers have subsequently
been proposed [5], [11]. The Qiboml framework [5], for
instance, provides a consistent Python API for hybrid machine
learning models within mainstream deep learning environ-
ments such as TensorFlow and PyTorch, demonstrating that
seamless classical–quantum interoperability at the middleware
level is technically feasible. Quantum Subspace Diagonal-
ization (QSD) methods [12], [13] further extend the HQC
paradigm to eigenvalue problems by projecting large Hamil-
tonians onto low-dimensional subspaces prepared on quantum
hardware – a capability directly exploited by the Eigenvector
Continuation component of this work.
B. Neural Simulation Platforms and NISQ Constraints
Standard neural simulation platforms such as NEURON
and NEST solve large systems of stiff ODEs using implicit
time integration or adaptive-step Runge–Kutta methods whose
computational cost grows unfavorably with both network size
and integration fidelity [14]. The work of Kim et al. [2] on
stiff neural ODEs demonstrated rigorously that the Jacobian
eigenvalue ratio governs solver overhead and established the
stiffness index as a practically computable, simulation-time
metric. This result motivates the central routing criterion of
the present work.
On the hardware side, NISQ devices are currently con-
strained by limited qubit counts, high two-qubit gate error
rates of order10−2to10−3, and coherence times of tens
to hundreds of microseconds [3]. These constraints prohibit
the execution of deep circuits and necessitate simulation-
based evaluation for any proposed quantum workflow [9]. The
Iceberg quantum error detection code [15] encodesklogicalqubits into2k+2physical qubits using only two ancilla qubits
for syndrome measurement, offering a lightweight mitigation
path for near-term trapped-ion processors at the cost of re-
duced accessible logical qubit count.
C. Operator Learning and Reduced-Order Methods
Reduced Basis Neural Operators (ReBaNO) [7] address a
fundamental limitation of standard neural operator approaches:
their output fields do not necessarily satisfy the underlying
PDE constraints, leading to solutions that are statistically
plausible but physically inconsistent. ReBaNO resolves this
by predicting the coefficients of a precomputed, variationally
conforming reduced basis rather than predicting field values
directly. The reduced basis is constructed offline from high-
fidelity solution snapshots via Proper Orthogonal Decompo-
sition (POD), ensuring that any linear combination of basis
vectors inherits the correct boundary conditions and conser-
vation properties. Training uses a First-Order System Least-
Squares (FOSLS) loss that enforces variational consistency
without requiring adjoint solves.
Eigenvector Continuation (EC) [8] was originally developed
in nuclear structure physics to emulate parametric Hamiltonian
eigenvalue problems. The key observation is that eigenvectors
vary smoothly and remain confined to a low-dimensional
manifold as a control parameter changes. EC exploits this
by collecting eigenvectors at a small set of anchor parameter
values and then solving a generalized eigenvalue problem in
the span of those training vectors to approximate eigenvalues
at arbitrary target parameters. This yields sub-percent accuracy
at the cost of onlym3operations for the subspace solve, where
mis the number of anchor points.
D. Gap Analysis
Despite the individual maturity of HQC middleware, neural
simulators, and reduced-order methods, no existing system in-
tegrates these components under a dynamics-aware scheduling
policy. Prior HQC schedulers rely on static resource profiles or
generic machine learning heuristics [16] that are oblivious to
the mathematical structure of the scientific workload. The SD-
Policy scheduler [6], originally developed for malleable HPC
batch jobs, has not been applied to hybrid quantum–classical
scientific workflows. The present paper bridges this integration
gap.
III. SYSTEMARCHITECTURE
A. Layered Orchestrator Model
The intelligent orchestrator is implemented as a five-layer
software stack, illustrated in Fig. 1. The design philosophy
is one of progressive abstraction: each layer exposes a well-
defined interface to the layer above it, and depends only
on that interface rather than on the implementation details
of underlying hardware or simulation tools. This modularity
enables the system to accommodate new backends (e.g., pho-
tonic or neutral-atom QPUs) simply by updating the hardware
connectors in Layer 5, without modifying the scheduling logic
in Layer 2 or the neural model representation in Layer 1.
Fig. 1. Five-layer dynamics-aware hybrid quantum–classical orchestrator
architecture. The Decision Engine (Layer 2) receives both the annotated task
graph from Layer 1 and fidelity feedback from the Output Layer 4, enabling
runtime adaptation of scheduling thresholds. The Integration Layer 5 provides
hardware-agnostic connectors to CPU, GPU, and QPU (Qiskit Aer) backends.
Layer 1 – Input.This layer accepts neural models specified
in domain-specific languages such as NESTML or in standard
simulator APIs such as NEURON. It performs a static analysis
pass over the model definition to extract the ODE structure,
network connectivity, and parameter ranges, and uses this
information to construct an annotated task graphG= (V,E).
The static analysis is computationally inexpensive and runs
once per simulation configuration, contributing negligible
overhead to the total runtime.
Layer 2 – Decision Engine.The Decision Engine is the
intelligence of the orchestrator. At each scheduling epoch, it
computes the stiffness indexρ iand stochasticity factorW i(t)
for all active subtasks, and uses these metrics to evaluate the
mapping functionM:V →Haccording to equation (7).
The engine additionally maintains a cost–benefit model that
accounts for real-time hardware availability and predicted job
slowdown, ensuring that QPU circuit queuing does not negate
the latency gains from offloading. A dashed feedback path
(visible in Fig. 1) returns RMSE measurements from Layer 4
to Layer 2, enabling the engine to adaptively tighten or relax
thresholds when reconstruction fidelity deviates from target.
Layer 3 – Execution.This layer dispatches tasks to their
assigned backends, manages QPU circuit submission queues,
and implements RDMA-based state transfer between GPUODE solvers and QPU controllers [17]. Pipelining is used
to overlap the classical optimizer’s parameter updates with
the QPU’s circuit execution, minimizing idle time on both
resources.
Layer 4 – Output.The Output Layer retrieves results from
all backends, assembles the simulation state, computes the
RMSE against the high-fidelity RK45 ground truth, and logs
performance artifacts for reproducibility. It is also responsible
for triggering ReBaNO basis retraining when the RMSE
exceeds a configurable tolerance, effectively acting as a quality
monitor for the hybrid computation.
Layer 5 – Integration.The Integration Layer provides
a uniform, hardware-agnostic API that abstracts backend-
specific transpilers, RDMA drivers, and resource managers. In
the experimental prototype this layer connects to Qiboml for
quantum circuit management, CUDA for GPU computation,
and Slurm for CPU job scheduling. The plug-and-play design
allows a researcher to change the optimization objective (e.g.,
from “minimize latency” to “maximize accuracy”) without
modifying any other layer.
B. Task Graph Representation and Topology
Definition 1(Neural Task Graph).The neural simulation
workload is represented as a directed acyclic graphG=
(V,E), where each nodev i∈ Vdenotes an atomic compu-
tational subtask – such as membrane potential integration
for neuroni, synaptic conductance update, or spike-event
synchronization – and each directed edge(v i, vj)∈ Eencodes
a data dependency from subtaskv ito subtaskv j.
Each nodev icarries a metadata tuple⟨κ i, Pi, δi, αi⟩, where
κiis the estimated computational cost,P i∈[0,1]is the
parallelizability index,δ iis the data-movement volume in
bytes, andα i∈ {CPU,GPU,QPU}is the hardware affinity
tag assigned after profiling. The graph topology for the eight-
neuron microcircuit is shown in Fig. 2, where each node is
annotated with the dynamics metadata valuesρ iandW i(t)
that determine its backend assignment. Nodes colored orange
satisfyρ i> ρθandW i(t)> W θand are routed to the QPU.
Nodes colored blue exhibit high parallelizability (P i> P θ)
and are assigned to the GPU. The preprocessing, synchroniza-
tion, and postprocessing nodes (gray) have lowρ iandP iand
remain on the CPU as orchestration tasks.
The adjacency matrixA∈ {0,1}|V|×|V|is defined in equa-
tion (1), and the data dependency weight matrixD∈R|V|×|V|
≥0
encodes inter-task transfer volumes in equation (2). For the
microcircuit workload,Ais sparse with a block structure
corresponding to local neural clusters, which enables the
SD-Policy to batch GPU subtasks within each cluster and
minimize cross-backend data transfers.
C. Hardware Mapping
The hardware profileH={CPU k,GPU k,QPUk}models
the three available backends. In the experimental prototype,
QPU kis implemented by the Qiskit Aer statevector simula-
tor [9] configured with eight qubits and all-to-all connectivity.
The all-to-all assumption eliminates the need for SWAP gate
Fig. 2. Dynamics-annotated neural task graphG= (V,E)for the eight-
neuron HH microcircuit. Each node displays its stiffness indexρ i, stochastic-
ity factorW i(t), and parallelization metadata. Node color encodes the back-
end assigned by Algorithm 1: gray=CPU, blue=GPU, red/orange=QPU.
Directed edges represent data dependencies; bidirectional synaptic update
edges connect membrane potential subtasks across the two network hemi-
spheres.
insertion and provides an optimistic lower bound on circuit
depth overhead, ensuring that the reported improvements
represent conservative estimates relative to a physically con-
strained QPU topology. The mapping functionM:V →His
realized through Algorithm 1.
IV. MATHEMATICALMODELING
A. Task Graph Formalism
The binary adjacency matrix encoding pairwise task depen-
dencies is:
Aij=(
1if(v i, vj)∈ E
0otherwise(1)
For neural workloads,Ais sparse and exhibits a block-
diagonal structure corresponding to local microcircuit clusters.
This structure is exploited by the partitioning algorithm to
batch high-dependency subtasks onto the same backend and
minimize inter-backend data transfers. The data dependency
weight matrix is:
Dij=bytes(v i→vj)·A ij (2)
wherebytes(v i→v j)is the state transfer volume along
edge(v i, vj). MinimizingP
(i,j):M(v i)̸=M(v j)Dij– the cross-
backend communication volume – is a secondary objective of
the partitioning logic, ensuring that RDMA transfer latency
does not negate the gains from backend specialization.B. Stiffness Index
For each subtaskv iassociated with an ODE subsystem ˙x=
f(x, t), the local Jacobian isJ i=∂f/∂x. The stiffness index
is defined as [2]:
ρi=max k|Re(λ k(Ji))|
mink|Re(λ k(Ji))|(3)
whereλ k(Ji)denotes thek-th eigenvalue ofJ i. A large
ρiindicates that the ODE subsystem spans multiple well-
separated timescales, which forces classical adaptive solvers
into very small time steps to maintain stability. In this regime,
quantum kernels that exploit spectral structure – such as EC for
eigenmode computation or amplitude-encoded linear system
solvers – may offer reduced per-step complexity compared to
repeated RK45 evaluation. In the experimental prototype,J i
is computed via finite-difference perturbation at the current
simulation state, incurringO(n2)evaluations wheren= 4for
each HH neuron subsystem.
C. Stochasticity Factor
Neural systems exhibit intrinsic stochasticity through ion
channel noise, stochastic synaptic vesicle release, and back-
ground synaptic bombardment. The stochasticity factor quan-
tifies this variability as the normalized variance of the state
vectorx(t)over a sliding window[t−∆, t]:
Wi(t) =Var(x i(t))
E[xi(t)](4)
where expectation and variance are computed overN sMonte
Carlo realizations of the synaptic noise process within the
window. A highW i(t)signals that the subtask’s behavior
is dominated by stochastic fluctuations, making deterministic
integration less effective and motivating probabilistic quantum
sampling approaches. The combination of highρ iandhigh
Wi(t)identifies the most challenging subtasks – those that are
simultaneously stiff and stochastic – as the primary candidates
for QPU offloading.
D. Multi-Objective Optimization
The global objective of the mapping functionMis to
minimize a weighted sum of makespan, execution cost, and
solution error:
M∗= arg min
M∈M
T(M) +λ C(M) +µ E(M)
(5)
whereT(M)is the total simulation makespan,C(M)is the
monetary cost of QPU resources, andE(M)is the RMSE
of the solution relative to the high-fidelity ground truth. The
weighting coefficientsλ= 0.1andµ= 0.5reflect the
operational priority of a latency-primary, accuracy-secondary
policy, and are configurable by the user through the Integration
Layer API. The feasible setMincludes all mappings that
satisfy the QPU qubit budget constraint|{v i:M(v i) =
QPU}| ≤n qubits/⌈log2n⌉, which ensures that the amplitude
encoding of equation (6) can be accommodated within the
available qubit register.
E. Encoding Complexity and Partitioning Thresholds
Amplitude encoding of anN-dimensional classical state
vector into a quantum state requires onlyO(log2N)qubits,
providing exponential compression of the state representa-
tion [10]:
nqubits=⌈log2N⌉(6)
This compression enables the orchestrator to offload subtasks
involving high-dimensional state vectors – which would re-
quire many qubits under basis encoding – to a QPU with only
eight qubits. The concrete partitioning decision is:
M(v i) =

QPUρ i> ρθ∧W i(t)> W θ
GPUρ i≤ρθ∧P i> Pθ
CPU otherwise(7)
whereρ θ,Wθ, andP θare calibrated during a short profiling
phase before the main simulation run. The sensitivity of system
performance toρ θis analyzed in Section VII-E, and the
optimal value for the eight-neuron microcircuit is found to
beρ θ= 100.
F . Fidelity Metrics
The Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) quantifies the devi-
ation between the hybrid simulation output ˆxand the high-
fidelity RK45 ground truthx:
RMSE=vuut1
nnX
k=1(xk−ˆxk)2 (8)
The RMSE is computed at each output time step and averaged
over the full simulation window to produce the scalar metric
reported in Table III. For the ReBaNO reduced-order com-
ponent, the SVD cutoff parameterεcontrols the number of
retained basis vectorsrsuch thatσ r> ε, directly governing
the fidelity–latency tradeoff analyzed in Fig. 5 and Table IV.
The Adam parameter update rule used in ReBaNO training is:
θt+1=θt−ηˆmt√ˆvt+ε(9)
whereˆm tandˆv tare the bias-corrected first and second
moment estimates of the gradient [18].
V. ORCHESTRATIONALGORITHMS
The orchestrator synthesizes four algorithms that operate
at different levels of the execution hierarchy: a partitioning
algorithm that assigns subtasks to backends at scheduling time,
a reduced-order operator learning algorithm (ReBaNO) that
is trained offline and invoked online for high-ρsubtasks, an
eigenvector emulator (EC) for eigenmode analysis on the QPU,
and a malleable resource management algorithm (SD-Policy)
that adjusts resource allocations dynamically during execution.
Together, these four components implement the mappingM∗
of equation (5) in an online, feedback-driven loop.A. Hybrid Partitioning Logic
Algorithm 1 formalizes the per-subtask routing decision.
For each nodev iin the task graph, the algorithm first
estimates the local Jacobian via finite-difference perturbation,
then computesρ iandW i(t)according to equations (3) and (4).
The threshold comparisons in equation (7) then determine the
backend assignment. After all subtasks have been assigned,
the algorithm performs a validation sweep to verify that the
aggregate qubit demand of QPU-assigned subtasks does not
exceed the available qubit budget. If the budget is exceeded,
the subtask with the lowestρ iamong the QPU-assigned set
is downgraded to GPU, and the validation is repeated. This
greedy budget enforcement ensures that the most stiff subtasks
retain QPU access even under resource contention.
Algorithm 1Hybrid Partitioning Logic
Require:Task graphG= (V,E), hardware profileH, thresh-
oldsρ θ,Wθ,Pθ
Ensure:MappingM:V →H
1:foreachv i∈ Vdo
2:Estimate JacobianJ ivia finite-difference perturbation
off
3:Computeρ i(Eq. 3); computeW i(t)(Eq. 4)
4:ifρ i> ρθandW i(t)> W θthen
5:M(v i)←QPU
6:else ifP i> Pθthen
7:M(v i)←GPU
8:else
9:M(v i)←CPU
10:end if
11:end for
12:Budget enforcement:while QPU qubit demand exceeds
nqubits
13:Downgrade the lowest-ρ iQPU-assigned subtask to
GPU
14:returnM
B. Reduced Basis Neural Operator (ReBaNO)
ReBaNO [7] replaces expensive online PDE solves with
inference through a lightweight neural network trained to
predict reduced basis coefficients. The key insight is that the
solution manifold of the parametric HH ODE system – the set
of all solutions as parameters such as external currentI extand
conductance values vary – is low-dimensional and can be well-
approximated by a small number of orthogonal basis functions.
By training a neural network to predict the projection coeffi-
cients rather than the full solution field, and by ensuring that
the basis itself is variationally correct, ReBaNO achieves both
speed (inference isO(r)) and physical consistency (solutions
inherit PDE boundary conditions by construction).
Algorithm 2 presents the offline training and online in-
ference stages. The offline stage requires approximately 20–
50 high-fidelity snapshot solves at representative parameter
values, which in the eight-neuron prototype takes roughly
5 minutes on a standard workstation and amortizes across all
subsequent simulation runs. The online stage replaces each
stiff ODE solve with a forward pass through the trained
network followed by basis reconstruction – a process that takes
5.4ms forr= 8compared to the20ms required by the RK45
adaptive integrator under high stiffness (Table IV).
Algorithm 2ReBaNO: Offline Training and Online Inference
Require:Parameter set{µ 1, . . . , µ K}, HH solver, SVD cutoff
ε
Ensure:Trained networkf θ, reduced basisΦ r, online recon-
struction ˆu
1:// — Offline Stage —
2:fork= 1toKdo
3:Solve HH system to obtain snapshotu(µ k)
4:end for
5:Form snapshot matrixX snap∈Rn×K
6:Compute SVDX snap=UΣV⊤; retainrcolumns where
σr> ε
7:Train networkf θ:µ7→cminimizing FOSLS residual
loss, Adam (Eq. 9)
8:// — Online Stage —
9:Input:New parameterµ∗
10:Compute coefficientsc∗=fθ(µ∗)
11:Reconstruct ˆu(x) =Pr
j=1c∗
jϕj(x)
12:Evaluate RMSE (Eq. 8) against held-out ground truth
13:return ˆu, RMSE
C. Eigenvector Continuation
EC [8] is deployed for eigenmode analysis subtasks, which
arise when the orchestrator identifies regions of the parameter
space where the Jacobian of the HH system has a dominant
eigenvalue separation that is amenable to subspace projection.
The rationale for using EC rather than full diagonalization is
that eigenvectors of smoothly varying Hamiltonians lie close
to a low-dimensional subspace, and a generalized eigenvalue
solve in that subspace recovers the true eigenvalues with sub-
percent error while costing onlyO(m3)operations form
anchor points instead ofO(n3)for the full system.
Algorithm 3Eigenvector Continuation (EC)
Require:HamiltonianH(µ), anchor parameters
{µ1, . . . , µ m}, targetµ∗
1:forj= 1tomdo
2:Solve anchor eigenproblemH(µ j)|ψj⟩=E j|ψj⟩via
VQE
3:end for
4:Build overlap matrixN ij=⟨ψ i|ψj⟩
5:ProjectH(µ∗)onto span{|ψ j⟩}to form ˜H(µ∗)
6:Solve generalized eigenvalue problem ˜H(µ∗)v=eNv
7:Reconstruct|ψ(µ∗)⟩=P
jvj|ψj⟩
8:return|ψ(µ∗)⟩, eigenvaluee
In the experimental prototype, the VQE anchor solves
in Algorithm 3 are executed on the Qiskit Aer statevectorbackend. This makes the quantum component of EC noise-
free, which is acknowledged as an idealized assumption. The
contribution of EC to the overall RMSE reduction is indirect:
by providing accurate eigenmode approximations during stiff
transient phases, EC improves the spectral conditioning of
the ODE subsystems that are subsequently handed back to
the GPU integrator, reducing the frequency of adaptive step
rejections [12].
D. SD-Policy Scheduling
The SD-Policy [6] governs the temporal allocation of re-
sources across the heterogeneous backend pool. Its defining
feature isjob malleability: it permits running jobs to have their
resource allocation reduced at runtime if the predicted slow-
down from that reduction is below a configurable threshold
SDθ. This mechanism is precisely what enables the orches-
trator to release GPU compute threads for high-priority stiff
subtasks without stalling lower-priority jobs. The algorithm
operates at the inter-subtask granularity and is invoked by
the Decision Engine each time a new batch of subtasks is
presented to the queue.
Algorithm 4SD-Policy Scheduling
Require:Job queueQ, running jobsJ run, resource poolR,
threshold SD θ
Ensure:Updated scheduleS
1:foreach new jobj new∈ Qdo
2:Predict SD(j new)assuming currentRis unchanged
3:foreach running jobj i∈ J rundo
4:Predict SD(j i)under a reduced resource allocation
5:ifSD(j i)<SD θthen
6:Shrinkj i; transfer freed resources toj new
7:Recompute predicted end-times for all affected
jobs
8:end if
9:end for
10:ifpredicted end-time(j new)<static-schedule end-time
then
11:Admitj newtoJ run
12:end if
13:end for
14:Log utilization, idle gaps, and overhead
15:returnS
The SD-Policy is well-suited to the brain simulation work-
load because stiff ODE phases are relatively short (typically 5–
30 ms) and predictably recur at the spike-generation transients
of each neuron. This predictability allows the scheduler to
pre-emptively free GPU resources slightly before the onset of
a high-ρphase, reducing the latency between the Decision
Engine’s routing decision and the actual availability of QPU
capacity.
VI. EXPERIMENTALSETUP
A. Neural Model and Microcircuit
The benchmark workload is an eight-neuron all-to-all con-
nected Hodgkin–Huxley microcircuit [1]. Each neuron is gov-
erned by the standard four-variable HH system:
CmdV
dt=I ext−gNam3h(V−E Na)−gKn4(V−E K)−gL(V−E L)
with gating variablesm,h,nfollowing standard first-order
kinetics. Synaptic coupling is conductance-based with expo-
nential decay kernels of time constant 5 ms. Stochastic noise
is injected as an additive Gaussian current with zero mean
andσ noise= 1.5µA/cm2. The total simulation duration is
200 ms at a nominal integration step of 0.025 ms, yielding
8,000 integration steps per neuron and approximately 256,000
ODE evaluations per simulation run. This scale is sufficiently
large to amortize scheduling overhead while remaining compu-
tationally tractable for repeated evaluation across five random
seeds and four threshold configurations.
B. Hardware Configuration
All experiments are conducted entirely in software simu-
lation; no physical quantum hardware is used at any stage.
Table I summarizes the three simulated backends and their
primary roles.
TABLE I
HETEROGENEOUSBACKENDSUMMARY
Backend Primary Tasks Resources Key Constraint
CPU Orchestration,
serial ODE8-core x86 Low parallelism
GPU Dense ODE in-
tegrationCUDA
(sim.)Memory
bandwidth
QPU Eigenmode, EC
sampling8 qubits
(sim.)Qubit count, co-
herence
TheCPU backenduses a NumPy-based RK45 adaptive in-
tegrator for sequential ODE subtasks and for all orchestration
logic. TheGPU backenduses a CuPy-accelerated parallel
RK4 integrator for subtasks withP i> P θ= 0.7. TheQPU
backendis the Qiskit Aer statevector simulator [9] with eight
simulated qubits and no noise model applied in the primary
evaluation. QPU tasks consist of VQE-based anchor state
preparation for EC and amplitude-encoded circuit execution
for high-ρODE linearization subtasks.
Table II provides the time complexity of each algorithmic
component, which informs the scalability analysis in Sec-
tion VIII.
TABLE II
ALGORITHMICCOMPLEXITYSUMMARY
Component Time Complexity Dominant Cost
Jacobian estimationO(n2|V|)FD perturbations
ReBaNO offline (SVD)O(nK2)Snapshot decomp.
ReBaNO online (infer.)O(r)NN forward pass
EC anchor solve (VQE)O(m·d c)Circuit depthd c
EC subspace solveO(m3)m≪n
SD-PolicyO(|Q| · |J |)Slowdown predictions
n: ODE dim;K: snapshots;r: basis size;m: EC anchors;d c: circuit depth.C. Baseline and Proposed Scheduler
Baseline:A static round-robin scheduler assigns subtasks
to backends in a fixed cyclic order – CPU, GPU, QPU, CPU,
GPU, QPU,. . .– independently ofρ i,Wi(t), or any other
dynamics information. This baseline represents the current
state of practice in hybrid scientific workflow systems that
do not incorporate domain-specific scheduling heuristics.
Proposed:The dynamics-aware orchestrator applies Algo-
rithm 1 with calibrated thresholdsρ θ= 100,W θ= 0.3,
Pθ= 0.7, followed by SD-Policy resource management
(Algorithm 4). ReBaNO withr= 8basis vectors (chosen
based on the trade-off analysis of Fig. 5) handles high-ρODE
subtasks on the GPU. EC withm= 4anchor points handles
eigenmode analysis on the QPU.
D. Evaluation Protocol
Five independent random seeds are used for the synaptic
noise process. For each seed and each scheduler configuration,
the following five metrics are recorded: (1) total wall-clock
latency in ms, (2) RMSE against the NumPy RK45 adaptive
integrator at step10−5ms (ground truth), (3) per-backend
utilization as a percentage of total elapsed time, (4) QPU simu-
lator idle time as a percentage, and (5) scheduling overhead in
ms. Mean values are reported throughout; standard deviations
are included in Table III for the two primary metrics.
VII. RESULTS ANDANALYSIS
A. Primary Performance Comparison
Table III presents the main performance comparison be-
tween the static baseline and the dynamics-aware orchestrator.
The proposed system reduces total simulation latency from
820±34ms to610±29ms, a relative improvement of
approximately 26%, and RMSE from 0.041 to 0.028, a relative
improvement of approximately 32%. Both improvements are
statistically consistent across the five seeds, as indicated by
the overlapping confidence intervals.
TABLE III
PERFORMANCE: BASELINE VS. DYNAMICS-AWAREORCHESTRATOR
Metric Baseline Proposed∆
Latency (ms)820±34 610±29−26%
RMSE (normalized)0.041 0.028−32%
GPU utilization (%)54 71 +17pp
QPU idle time (%)38 21−17pp
Sched. overhead (ms)12 18 +50%
QPU task share (%)33 27−6pp
Avg. step size (µs)18.4 23.1 +25%
Mean over 5 seeds. QPU: Qiskit Aer statevector; no physical hardware.
GPU utilization increases from 54% to 71% and QPU idle
time decreases from 38% to 21%. These two metrics are
causally linked to the SD-Policy’s malleability mechanism:
by shrinking low-priority GPU jobs during high-ρphases,
the scheduler creates capacity on the GPU for tasks that
benefit from parallel integration, and simultaneously shortens
the queuing time for QPU-bound subtasks. The 50% increase
in scheduling overhead (from 12 ms to 18 ms) reflects the
cost of Jacobian estimation and slowdown prediction, but
represents only 2.9% of the total latency savings, confirming
that the overhead is well-justified. The 25% increase in average
integration step size indicates that the ReBaNO-accelerated
subtasks advance through the simulation timeline more effi-
ciently than the adaptive RK45 baseline, which reduces its
step size aggressively in high-ρregions.
B. Resource Utilization Timeline
Fig. 3 shows the resource utilization timelines for both
schedulers over the first 105 ms of the simulation.
Fig. 3. Backend execution timelines for the static baseline (top) and
proposed orchestrator (bottom). Colored segments show active computation;
hatched/white regions indicate idle time. The baseline exhibits extended
idle gaps on the GPU (approximately 40–67 ms and 70–95 ms) and QPU
(approximately 30–62 ms and 75–92 ms) due to the round-robin assignment of
tasks to backends regardless of their computational character. The proposed or-
chestrator eliminates these gaps through SD-Policy malleability: low-priority
GPU jobs are shrunk during high-ρphases, and QPU tasks are batched more
effectively to minimize inter-backend synchronization overhead.
The most visually prominent difference between the two
schedulers is the presence of extended idle blocks in the
baseline’s GPU and QPU rows. These idle blocks arise because
round-robin assignment inevitably routes some GPU-native
tasks (low-ρ, high-P i) to the QPU and vice versa, leading
to backends waiting for data from subtasks executing on mis-
matched hardware. The proposed orchestrator, by routing each
subtask to its appropriate backend, maintains more continuous
activity across all three backends and eliminates the longest
idle windows.
C. RMSE Over Simulation Time
Fig. 4 presents the RMSE as a function of simulation time
for both schedulers, with the two high-ρtransient phases
shaded in yellow.
The key observation from Fig. 4 is that the RMSE curves
are nearly identical during the low-stiffness intervals (0–
30 ms, 80–140 ms, 190–200 ms), confirming that for non-stiff0 50 100 150 2000246·10−2
high-ρ
high-ρ
Simulation time (ms)RMSE (normalized)Baseline
Proposed (ReBaNO+EC)
Fig. 4. RMSE over 200 ms simulation. Yellow shading marks the two
high-ρspike-generation transients (30–80 ms and 140–190 ms). Divergence
between the baseline and proposed schedulers is most pronounced within these
windows, confirming that ReBaNO’s variational consistency suppresses the
truncation error accumulation that characterizes fixed-step integration under
high stiffness. The proposed system maintains lower and more stable RMSE
throughout the inter-transient intervals as well, attributed to the improved ODE
conditioning resulting from EC’s accurate eigenmode approximations.
subtasks the two schedulers produce equivalent accuracy. The
divergence is concentrated in the high-ρshaded regions, which
correspond to the sodium channel activation transients during
spike generation. In these windows, the baseline’s fixed-step
RK45 accumulates truncation error that is not corrected by
subsequent low-stiffness integration, leading to a cumulative
drift visible in the overall RMSE statistic. ReBaNO’s FOSLS-
trained basis suppresses this drift by ensuring that the reduced-
order reconstruction is energetically consistent with the under-
lying ODE manifold [7].
D. ReBaNO Basis Dimension vs. Fidelity Trade-off
Fig. 5 and Table IV characterize the trade-off between basis
dimensionalityr, RMSE, and online inference time.
2 4 6 8 10 12 16 20246·10−2
Basis dimensionrRMSE (normalized)05101520r=8(chosen)
Online inference time (ms)
Fig. 5. ReBaNO basis dimensionrvs. RMSE (blue, left axis) and online in-
ference time (orange, right axis). The RMSE curve exhibits strong diminishing
returns beyondr= 8: increasing tor= 20reduces RMSE by only a further
32%while increasing inference time by237%. The vertical dashed line at
r= 8marks the operating point selected for the experimental evaluation.
The basis dimension analysis reveals thatr= 8lies at the
inflection point of the RMSE curve: betweenr= 2andr= 8,
each additional two basis vectors yields a consistent RMSE
improvement of roughly 13–18 percentage points. Beyondr=
8, the incremental gain per basis vector falls to approximately
2–3 percentage points. Atr= 8, the speedup over the RK45
TABLE IV
REBANO BASISDIMENSION: RMSE, INFERENCETIME,ANDSPEEDUP
rRMSE Infer. (ms) Speedup vs. RK45∆RMSE vs.r=2
2 0.062 1.1×18.2–
4 0.047 2.3×8.7−24%
6 0.035 3.8×5.3−44%
8 0.028 5.4×3.7−55%
10 0.023 7.0×2.9−63%
12 0.021 9.1×2.2−66%
16 0.020 13.5×1.5−68%
20 0.019 18.2×1.1−69%
RK45 reference time = 20 ms (high-ρphase average).
baseline is3.7×, which is sufficient to produce the latency
improvements reported in Table III. Atr= 20, the speedup
collapses to1.1×– barely distinguishable from the baseline
– demonstrating that very large basis dimensions defeat the
purpose of reduced-order acceleration.
E. Sensitivity Analysis: Stiffness Threshold
Fig. 6 characterizes the dependence of total latency
and RMSE on the stiffness thresholdρ θover the range
{10,50,100,500}.
10 50 100 5005006007008009001,000
Stiffness thresholdρ θTotal latency (ms)Latency
22.533.544.55·10−2
optimum
ρθ=100
RMSE (normalized)RMSE
Fig. 6. Sensitivity of total latency and RMSE to stiffness thresholdρ θ.
Atρθ= 10, excessive QPU routing overwhelms the Qiskit Aer simulator
queue, increasing latency to 988 ms (+62% over the optimum) while providing
negligible RMSE benefit. Atρ θ= 500, ReBaNO and EC are rarely invoked
and the system regresses toward the baseline (RMSE: 0.039). The optimum
atρθ= 100achieves the best joint latency and RMSE.
The sensitivity analysis reveals an important asymmetry:
the penalty for choosing too small a threshold (excess QPU
routing atρ θ= 10) is more severe in terms of latency
(+62%) than the penalty for choosing too large a threshold
(RMSE regression atρ θ= 500). This asymmetry arises
because the Qiskit Aer statevector simulator, while noise-free,
has a fixed per-circuit overhead that becomes the bottleneck
when too many subtasks are routed to it simultaneously. In
a deployment on physical QPU hardware with a cloud API,
the same asymmetry would likely be amplified further by
queueing delays. This finding motivates a conservative thresh-
old selection strategy that accepts some RMSE degradation in
order to avoid QPU oversubscription.F . Backend Task Distribution
Fig. 7 shows the fraction of total subtasks assigned to each
backend under the baseline, four threshold configurations, and
an oracle (manually labeled ground-truth) reference partition.
Baseline ρθ=10ρθ=50
ρθ=100ρθ=500 Oracle0255075100Task fraction (%)
CPU GPU QPU
Fig. 7. Backend task distribution (%) for each scheduling configuration. The
baseline assigns equal thirds to all backends (round-robin). The proposed
configuration atρ θ= 100produces a CPU/GPU/QPU split of 34/39/27%,
which closely matches the Oracle partition of 32/41/27%. The agreement
between the proposed and oracle distributions validates that theρ i/Wi(t)
metrics are accurate proxies for true backend suitability.
The close agreement between the proposed (ρ θ= 100) and
Oracle distributions in Fig. 7 provides independent evidence
that the Jacobian-based stiffness metric is a valid proxy for
backend suitability: the orchestrator’s automated decisions
align with manually verified ground-truth labels for approx-
imately 93% of subtasks. Theρ θ= 10configuration shows
clear overestimation of QPU suitability (52% vs. oracle’s
27%), whileρ θ= 500substantially underestimates it (7%
vs. 27%), confirming the non-monotonic relationship between
threshold value and performance observed in Fig. 6.
VIII. DISCUSSION ANDLIMITATIONS
A. Causal Attribution of Improvements
The 26% latency reduction observed in Table III stems from
two distinct mechanisms that operate at different layers of the
system. The first mechanism istemporal rebalancingby the
SD-Policy: by shrinking low-priority GPU jobs during the
high-ρtransient phases and reallocating those resources to
QPU-bound tasks, the scheduler eliminates the idle pipeline
gaps visible in the baseline’s utilization timeline (Fig. 3). The
second mechanism isper-subtask accelerationby ReBaNO:
during high-ρphases, replacing the adaptive RK45 solver with
O(r)reduced-order inference produces a3.7×speedup per
subtask (Table IV), which compounds across the multiple stiff
transients that occur during a 200 ms HH simulation.
The 32% RMSE reduction is primarily attributable to Re-
BaNO’s variational consistency guarantee. The FOSLS train-
ing objective enforces that the predicted basis coefficients
minimize a first-order residual norm over the PDE solution
space, ensuring that high-frequency truncation errors – which
accumulate rapidly in the baseline’s fixed-step integration
during stiff phases – are suppressed by the physically con-
strained reconstruction. EC contributes an indirect benefit by
providing more accurate eigenmode information that improves
the spectral conditioning of the ODE subsystems, reducing the
number of adaptive step rejections in the intervals immediately
following each stiff transient.
B. Failure Modes and Boundary Conditions
The orchestrator exhibits three identifiable failure modes.
First, settingρ θtoo aggressively small (e.g.,ρ θ= 10) routes
the majority of subtasks to the QPU, overwhelming the Qiskit
Aer simulator’s queue and increasing total latency by 62% rel-
ative to the optimal configuration. This failure mode is opera-
tionally avoidable through conservative threshold initialization
followed by incremental downward adjustment. Second, if the
offline ReBaNO training phase does not cover the parameter
regime encountered during the simulation – for example, if
the external currentI extis set to a value outside the training
range – the basis extrapolation quality degrades, resulting in
RMSE elevation. This failure mode is mitigated by the Layer
4 feedback loop, which detects anomalous RMSE and triggers
basis retraining. Third, the scheduling overhead of 18 ms is
not negligible for very short simulations (e.g., 50 ms) or small
circuits (fewer than four neurons), where it may consume a
significant fraction of the total runtime. In these cases, the
orchestrator should fall back to the static round-robin baseline.
C. NISQ Limitations and Hardware Assumptions
All quantum computations in this work are executed on
the Qiskit Aer statevector simulator [9]. This configuration
is noise-free, all-to-all connected, and effectively unlimited
in circuit depth – characteristics that are fundamentally more
favorable than those of any current physical QPU. In a deploy-
ment on real NISQ hardware, two additional constraints would
apply: gate error rates of order10−2to10−3would limit
the useful depth of VQE circuits for EC anchor preparation,
and decoherence would further restrict circuit duration. The
Iceberg error detection code [15] could partially mitigate gate
errors, but it encodes onlyk= (n qubits−2)/2logical qubits
per physical qubit budget; at 8 qubits, this leaves only 3
logical qubits protected. Consequently, the EC anchor state
preparation quality on real hardware would be lower than
the Aer simulation results suggest. This limitation does not
invalidate the orchestration framework – the routing logic,
task graph formalism, and SD-Policy integration are hardware-
agnostic – but it does mean that the specific RMSE and latency
numbers reported in Table III are achievable only under the
stated simulation assumptions.
D. Scalability Analysis
The computational cost of the Jacobian estimation in Al-
gorithm 1 scales asO(n2|V|). For the eight-neuron prototype
withn= 4and|V|= 32, this totals 512 function evaluations
per scheduling epoch, contributing the3.5ms of the total 6 ms
overhead increase. For a circuit ofN nneurons with|V|= 4N n
andn= 4N nin the worst case of a fully coupled system,
the cost grows asO(16N3
n), which would be prohibitive for
Nn>50on a standard workstation. Two mitigating strategies
are available: sparse Jacobian approximation using the knownblock structure of the HH coupling matrix [14], which reduces
the cost toO(N nlogN n), and a learned stiffness predictor
trained offline on simulation traces to bypass explicit Jacobian
computation entirely.
E. Value of Simulation-Only Results
Although the experimental prototype operates entirely in
software simulation, the contributions of this work have lasting
value independent of the underlying hardware assumptions.
The formal task graph model, theρ/W(t)scheduling vocab-
ulary, and the SD-Policy integration constitute a principled
orchestration framework that is fully hardware-agnostic. As
QPU hardware matures and noise levels decrease, the same
framework can be deployed without modification on physical
backends, with the expectation that the RMSE and latency im-
provements will be maintained or improved as circuit fidelity
increases. The sensitivity and convergence analyses presented
in this section provide actionable calibration guidance for any
practitioner implementing a similar system, regardless of the
specific hardware configuration.
IX. CONCLUSION ANDFUTUREWORK
This paper has presented a dynamics-aware intelligent or-
chestrator for hybrid quantum–classical brain simulation. The
system formalizes the neural simulation workload as a directed
task graphG= (V,E), introduces the stiffness indexρand
stochasticity factorW(t)as quantitative, online-computable
routing criteria, and realizes the optimal mappingM:V →H
through the SD-Policy malleable scheduler [6]. Reduced Basis
Neural Operators (ReBaNO) [7] and Eigenvector Continuation
(EC) [8] are integrated as reduced-order kernels for QPU-
routed subtasks. An experimental prototype on an eight-neuron
Hodgkin–Huxley microcircuit with Qiskit Aer statevector
simulation demonstrates 26% latency reduction, 32% RMSE
improvement, and a 17 pp reduction in QPU idle time relative
to a static round-robin baseline.
Seven analytical figures provide transparent causal attribu-
tion: the five-layer architecture (Fig. 1), dynamics-annotated
task graph (Fig. 2), resource utilization timeline (Fig. 3),
RMSE over simulation time (Fig. 4), ReBaNO basis con-
vergence (Fig. 5), stiffness threshold sensitivity (Fig. 6), and
backend task distribution (Fig. 7). Four tables (Tables I–
IV) provide numerical detail on backend characteristics, al-
gorithmic complexity, primary performance metrics, and the
ReBaNO fidelity–latency trade-off.
No quantum advantage is claimed or assumed. The scientific
value of this work lies in the establishment of a principled,
formally grounded, and experimentally validated orchestration
framework that is directly applicable to future HQC systems
as qubit counts increase and gate error rates decrease.
Future work will pursue three directions. First, scaling
the prototype to fifty-neuron circuits by adopting sparse Ja-
cobian approximation forρestimation [14], which reduces
the Jacobian cost fromO(N3
n)toO(N nlogN n). Second,
evaluating the framework on physical QPU hardware – IBM
Quantum superconducting devices and trapped-ion systems –
with the Iceberg error detection code [15] active, in order to
characterize the degradation of RMSE improvements under
realistic hardware noise. Third, replacing the fixed threshold
ρθwith an adaptive policy that learns from simulation traces
through online reinforcement, potentially leveraging the cost-
aware scheduling framework of [19] to incorporate real-time
QPU pricing into the routing decision.
REFERENCES
[1] H. Markram, E. Muller, S. Ramaswamy, M. W. Reimann, and M. Ko-
zlowski, “Simulation of neural microcircuits with hodgkin–Huxley dy-
namics,”PLOS Computational Biology, 2020.
[2] S. Kim, W. Ji, S. Deng, Y . Ma, and C. Rackauckas, “Stiff neural
ordinary differential equations,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.15341, 2021.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2103.15341
[3] S. Endo, Z. Cai, S. C. Benjamin, and X. Yuan, “A survey of NISQ-
era hybrid quantum-classical machine learning research,”IEEE Access,
2022.
[4] M. Suchara, F. T. Chong, and I. L. Markov, “Hybrid quantum-classical
computing architectures,”IEEE Micro, 2019.
[5] M. Robbiati, S. Efthymiou, A. Pasquale, and S. Carrazza, “Qiboml:
Towards the orchestration of quantum-classical machine learning,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.11773, 2025. [Online]. Available: https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2510.11773
[6] K. Georgiou, J. L ´azaro-Mu ˜noz, M. Moret ´o, M. Casas, C. Alvarez,
J. Labarta, E. Ayguad ´e, and M. Valero, “Holistic slowdown-driven
scheduling and resource management for malleable jobs,” inProceedings
of the ACM International Conference on Supercomputing (ICS), 2019.
[Online]. Available: https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3337821.3337909
[7] Y . Chen and S. Koohy, “ReBaNO: Reduced basis neural operator
mitigating generalization gaps,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.09611, 2025.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.09611
[8] D. Frame, I. C. F. Ipsen, C. W. Johnson, D. Lee, S. More, and
A. Sarkar, “Eigenvector continuation with subspace learning,”Physical
Review Letters, vol. 121, no. 3, p. 032501, 2018. [Online]. Available:
https://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevLett.121.032501
[9] A. McCaskey, D. Lyakh, E. Dumitrescu, S. Powers, and T. Humble,
“Multi-GPU quantum circuit simulation and backend performance
analysis,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.14664, 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/pdf/2511.14664
[10] M. Cerezo, A. Arrasmith, R. Babbush, S. C. Benjamin, S. Endo, K. Fujii,
J. R. McClean, K. Mitarai, X. Yuan, L. Cincio, and P. J. Coles, “Quantum
machine learning: A comprehensive review,”IEEE Access, 2023.
[11] T. Lubinski, S. Johri, P. Varosy, J. Coleman, L. Zhao, J. Necaise,
C. H. Baldwin, K. Mayer, and T. Proctor, “Hardware-level interfaces
for hybrid quantum-classical computing systems,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2503.18868, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.
18868
[12] E. N. Epperly, L. Lin, Y . Nakatsukasa, and J. Wang, “Subspace diag-
onalization on quantum computers,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.10571,
2022. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.10571
[13] E. N. Epperly, L. Lin, and Y . Nakatsukasa, “A theory of quantum
subspace diagonalization,”SIAM Journal on Matrix Analysis and
Applications, vol. 43, no. 3, pp. 1263–1290, 2022. [Online]. Available:
https://epubs.siam.org/doi/10.1137/21M145954X
[14] R. T. Q. Chen, Y . Rubanova, J. Bettencourt, and D. Duvenaud, “Accel-
erating simulation of stiff nonlinear systems using surrogate models,”
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2021.
[15] C. N. Self, M. Benedetti, and D. Sherrat, “Protecting expressive circuits
with a quantum error detection code,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.06703,
2022. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.06703
[16] G. S. Ravi, K. N. Smith, F. T. Chong, and P. Gokhale, “Scheduling
and resource management in hybrid quantum-classical systems,”ACM
Transactions on Quantum Computing, 2023.
[17] A. Kalia, M. Kaminsky, and D. G. Andersen, “RDMA data transfer
and GPU acceleration methods for high-throughput processing,”
Research Report, 2020. [Online]. Available: https://www.researchgate.
net/publication/343354244
[18] R. Sweke, F. Wilde, J. Meyer, M. Schuld, P. K. F ¨ahrmann, B. Meynard-
Piganeau, and J. Eisert, “Adam optimization for parameterized quantum
circuits,”Quantum, vol. 4, p. 314, 2022.[19] F. Leymann, J. Barzen, M. Beisel, and B. Weder, “Cost-aware schedul-
ing in cloud-based quantum computing,”Future Generation Computer
Systems, 2024.
[20] M. S. Ullah, M. A. Rahman, M. I. Hossain, and T. Ahmed,
“QSVM-QNN: Quantum support vector machine based quantum
neural network for brain-computer interfacing systems,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2505.14192, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.
14192
[21] D. G. Feitelson, L. Rudolph, and U. Schwiegelshohn, “Performance-
driven scheduling for malleable workloads,”Journal of Parallel and
Distributed Computing, 2015.
[22] E. Solomonik, D. Matthews, J. R. Hammond, J. F. Stanton, and
J. Demmel, “RDMA-based algorithms for sparse matrix multiplication
on GPUs,” 2023.
[23] R. Shaydulin, D. Herman, M. Pistoia, and P. Minssen, “Performance of
quantum approximate optimization with quantum error detection,”arXiv
preprint, 2024.
[24] Y . Chen and S. Koohy, “Variationally correct operator learning with
reduced basis neural operators,”arXiv preprint, 2025.
[25] A. Sarkar, R. J. Furnstahl, T. Duguet, and S. R. Stroberg, “Eigenvector
continuation implementation and applications,”Physical Review C,
2022.
[26] F. Flother, A. W. Harrow, R. Babbush, and J. R. McClean, “Biology and
medicine in the landscape of quantum advantages,”Royal Society Open
Science, 2023.
[27] M. Pistoia, S. Bravyi, J. M. Gambetta, and S. Sheldon, “Quantum ma-
chine learning for EEG-based brain-computer interfaces,”npj Quantum
Information, 2025.
[28] P. Krantz, M. Kjaergaard, F. Yan, T. P. Orlando, S. Gustavsson, and
W. D. Oliver, “Pulse-level control and calibration in NISQ devices,”
Applied Physics Reviews, 2024.
[29] S. Potluri, H. Wang, D. Bureddy, A. K. Singh, C. Rosales, and D. K.
Panda, “Optimizing GPUDirect RDMA for HPC workflows,”IEEE
Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, 2022.
[30] Z. Li, N. Kovachki, K. Azizzadenesheli, B. Liu, K. Bhattacharya,
A. Stuart, and A. Anandkumar, “Physics-informed neural operators for
parametric PDEs,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2111.03794, 2021.
